So every good portfolio is a great bio page.
And what's also good about putting this together now is when we do a Web site based portfolio and also
have our profile on lots of different freelancer Web sites and other places to have your portfolio or
profile all this is going to come in handy.
So in the goals section of the class you've already written kind of a bio but we're gonna talk about
how to kind of perfect that bio for different situations.
So for a print or digital PDA you can be a little bit longer with your bio.
That's OK.
You can dedicated entire page to it or a half a page whatever you feel like you have room for.
So you've already written your bio.
But what do you do do you do a third person bio or a first person bio so you can download this document
so you can kind of see how I have written her bio I've done it from a third person and a first person
which one works better.
That's really up to you what's great about each one.
The first one the first person bio.
What's great about this is you get to write this from your own perspective.
I did this I got these awards.
It's great to be able to be personal you feel like you're talking directly to the viewer which has that
personal touch to it.
The great thing about a third person bio which is where it feels like someone else is writing to you.
So I talk in the third person so Lillian Hernandez was always dabbling in creative things from sketching
portraits in high school to diving headfirst into photoshop before Photoshop was even a thing.
Lillian is now using her very talents so you can kind of see how it looks like someone wrote this for
them.
It looks really professional and when you look at a lot of really famous people's bios usually they
use third person because it's really hard when you reach a certain level of success.
It's kind of hard to talk about yourself in the first person without sounding a little conceited.
So that's where the third person is nice because he can talk about awards that you've won but she can
do it in a way that doesn't sound like you're boasting.
So that's kind of the benefit to the third person bio so you can take a look and figure out which how
you want to crafted if you wanted to do in the third person the first person and it could be a little
bit longer with this.
So now that we have our bio put together or we're going to head into end design and we're going to lay
this out of course we need to find the best cropping for our profile image or headshot.
We're gonna do that right now.
So I'm starting to put together all the essential things that we're gonna need for her bio page.
We have a headshot we have kind of this attention grabbing headline and then the bio.
So I just took the first line of her written bio and made it more of a headline to kind of grab your
attention so you just don't have a big old block of bio.
You want to have it be have a little pull quotes are a little interesting things to break up large blocks
of text and this is a pretty large bio so we could even put a pull quote here We can kind of put a little
space in here and find some kind of pull quote there.
There's a lot of different things we can do to make this a little bit more interesting and so with headshots
we want to make sure it's nice and big this is a chance for people to really get to know you and to
kind of have a personal connection with you along with the bio.
We can also put another photo in the background maybe faded of some work or maybe her at work maybe
her at a desk or take a picture of you or have a friend take a picture of you working at your computer
at your desk something that makes you more of a real person.
We want to make you a real person not just someone smiling in the camera.
So having that secondary photo will be really important to have along with a formal headshot.
So I'm going to kind of work with this layout a little bit.
You can also work in client testimonials.
You could put three client testimonials here in this area so that people can see your bio they can read
all the great things clients have said about you.
Not all of you agree to have client testimonials yet so you may not be able to do that but you can work
in other things.
Certain facts about you certain skill sets that you have.
I would think of this a little bit like a resumé.
You don't have to be quite as detailed or have your entire work history we're not going to do anything
like that but this will act a little bit like a resume and you're not applying for a job but you're
applying for a client work a little bit different but you're going to want to know and tell people that
your skill sets and kind of kind of talk about who you are a little bit this is the final bio page I
came up with after maybe an hour of finding several different versions.
I want to do a couple things I definitely wanted to have a bigger headshot.
I wanted to have that background photo of creation process although this particular photo is not perfect
at least kind of proves the point of having just one other secondary photo of that person.
Are you in action would be really helpful.
I also included a kind of a script font for the bottom to look like it was a hand written signature.
I think handwritten signatures are great.
You can actually write it with a pen and take a picture of it and be able to import that in that way
and get a real signature.
It'll be even more authentic than using a script font.
Also included a quote down here of course if you're using a quote on your project down here make sure
these quotes are different make sure you find a different quote You don't want to repeat the same one
all the time.
So we will make sure you have different quotes there.
If you even have a quote and then I like to incorporate the logo again here on the on the bio page to
kind of bring home that brand consistency and kind of show them a little bit of your talent at work
and branding your own stuff.
So this is it.
This is kind of what we've created for the bio.
Nowhere does the bio fit in all of this.
So we have our cover photo.
We have a bio we have two projects we'll have a third project there at the bottom.
Where do we put their bio.
A lot of people put it as the first page but we have a nice cover photo so we have it as the second
page.
Some people wait and they put it after the first project as kind of a storytelling kind of thing where
they have a project.
Then you show share a little bit about yourself.
I kind of prefer it after the cover photo but you can put it really on any page you'd like.
I can go in and zoom out and figure out where you think it would fit well in the plan.
As I mentioned before in prior lessons you can sprinkle in a little bit about yourself throughout between
each project.
So instead of having one big bio page you can divide that up and be able to sprinkle that out between
projects do people get to know you through a series of different paragraphs.
So here's kind of your I would call it a more resumé kind of presentation.
It's not exactly a resume.
It's kind of written a little bit more like that you're trying to sell yourself.
This is your big marketing page your marketing push.
So there you have it we have just created a PD f portfolio we can export this as a PD f I'm in Adobe
and design.
But if you're in Canada or even in word just export that and a PDA digital or print depending on which
one you need I would do a Adobe PDA if interactive or print our digital version.
If you're going to be uploading uploading it to a Web site or emailing it if anybody's ever going to
print it out which is kind of rare these days you'd make sure you do a print version but an interactive
version keeps it nice and light.
So the file size is not so heavy.
We're going to go ahead and export that just another side note try not to export PDX as spreads which
is what this looks like it's a spread.
You want to do single pages because that's easier for people to look at when you email it.
So I'm just going to keep it as single pages and exporting it all.
And of course this is not a finished PDA portfolio it's still kind of in process but just wanting to
show you a quick example of how I put together that.
And of course next we have lots of different portfolios to do.
We can do our online Web site based one next.
We're not going to do a full blown web design but I'm going to go through some of the basics of what
you need to gather together and think about before doing your Web site based portfolio.
So I'll see you there.